---
title: Meeting minutes November 9, 2021
author: Logan Wu
attendees:
  - Logan
  - Ivo
  - Xiao Nong Zhou
  - James McCaw
  - Jodie McVernon
  - Hanqing Zhao
  - Xuechen Yang
---


# Progress to date

- Looking at methods for modelling spatiotemporal variations in R_c. Based on S. Bhatt group work.

# Upcoming work

- LW need to prepare research plan before going to China as he will only see the data then.
- LW + supervisors to design procedure before getting access to data. E.g., what is the minimal dataset?
- Considerations:
  - Geographic scale of Vic vs China vs province level
  - Environmental covariates, remote sensing
  - Hainan easier than Yunnan because of island geography
  - Time horizon - perhaps a decade

# Related COVID work

- LW active in Doherty COVID modelling
- Will apply S. Bhatt methods to Vic COVID dataset as a malaria proxy. Still need to jump through administrative hoops to get permission.

# UoM/SJTU joint programme

- Discussed administrative issues because of Honours degree. The issue is still with the Vice Chancellor's office.
- May need to do professional infectious disease courses in Shanghai, in English

# Actions

- LW to circulate methods/papers referred to.
  1. [Using Hawkes Processes to model imported and local malaria cases in near-elimination settings](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.07.17.20156174v1)
  2. [Uncovering the Temporal Dynamics of Diffusion Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0697)

# Next meeting

- Individually at least every 2 months
- Whole team every 3 months, students to propose discussion topics
