---
title: Process for Research Data Requests
date: November 12, 2021
attendees:
  - Logan Wu
  - Alastair Forster (Vic DH)
---

Meeting to discuss the process for conducting research using Victorian Department of Health data.

# Background

> Hey Logan,
> 
> Yes, you will need ethics approval and we also have a template for you to complete (when you are all ready).
> 
> Looping in @Alastair Foster (Health) who will be able to assist you with the process and all of the paperwork required.
> 
> We are currently on pause for research requests, but I suspect we will be operational again soon, so please stay in touch with Alastair and we can consider your proposal in months to come.
> 
> Please feel free to reach out to me if you need any further information.
> 
> Cheers,
> 
> Rob Kennedy

# Process

1. Complete data request form (AF to send) and submit back to AF
2. VicDH Research Request team will reconvene in December at the earliest because of surge - will inform of further actions
3. Complete paperwork on Ethics Review Manager (ERM)
4. Seek ethics approval from any NHMRC-accredited ethics committee - the DH committee tends to be busy. Find one with submission and meeting times that align.

# Data request form

> Hi Logan
>
> It was good to speak to you this morning about your research project which involves accessing de-identified data from the Covid line list.  In the first instance, I suggest that you complete the attached Data Request Form for release of data on notifiable conditions in Victoria in accordance with the release policy and guidelines for applicants.  As you will be analysing individual data, you will require Ethical approval and may wish to review the requirements for completing and submitting an Ethics application.
>
> Ethics applications in Victoria need to be completed and submitted on the Ethical Review Manager (ERM) online system.  The link https://www.clinicaltrialsandresearch.vic.gov.au/ethical-review-manager will guide you through the process of setting up an account on ERM and the various applications that need to be completed and submitted to the Ethics committee, for example, the Human Research Ethics Application (HREA), the Victorian Specific Module (VSM), the Research Protocol etc. There are also some ERM training videos available to get you started and advice on common questions.
>
> I wish you all the best with your research.  If you have any further questions, please get in touch.
>
> Regards
> 
> Alastair Foster
